Hello, everyone. Today, I will have a presentation about the Playwright.
I will have two members. There's my partner, Hijitong, and me, Minwong Hao.
And here we go, the Playwright.
And our team, the Playwright saw a software testing tool called Playwright.
It's an automation testing tool developed by Microsoft.
The Playwright not only supports the multiple platform-like windows and Linux,
but also allows us to write tests in various languages, such as Python, Java, and JavaScript.
And in this video, we're going to focus on the end-to-end testing process in our lineup environment.
And the key features of the Playwright at ISS is getting used in any browser like Firefox 4, Microsoft Edge,
Chrome, and Safari in the iOS environment.
And the next is any platform like Windows, Linux, yes, and the others.
This has the first key feature of Playwright. It has the first execution, like isolate contest.
It's the new browser environment for each test.
Millisecond startup, the ultra-fast initialization.
The second is the resolution auto-waste. It has the smart interaction.
What is the automatic list query for the elements to be visible, stable, and enabled before acting?
No time-outs, eliminates need for manual time slips.
And the final is the platform tooling.
What is the key, the code change?
What is the record user actions to generate test scripts in an inspector?
We'll turn the button and selector explorations.
Trace viewer, the comprehensive flexible for failure investigation.
What is the name, snapshots, logs, and video?
And about the setup, the Playwright will show the virtual Python environment.
Install the Playwright in library, and next we're going to test the Playwright on source demo.com.
About the script, you can type the install environment, method environment to install project isolation,
and install via pip install Playwright, and enter the Playwright install to install the necessary browsers to run Playwright.
Next, my partner, my teacher, will show you how Playwright gonna do in our demo.
Okay, next is my part. In this testing, we will use the source demo website for the testing website.
About the test case, we have three test cases. Happy case, which is login with standard user and proceed to order and complete the order without any error.
And next is the negative case, login with a wrong user to testing the error.
And the final one is the performant case with a testing the outer way of Playwright.
Right here in my code editor, I did prepare the Python virtual environment.
And I did install, I did install Playwright and Playwright install to use their web browser.
Okay, first we will come to the Playwright codegen.
When I enter the Playwright codegen and enter the website URL at the website source demo,
they will show me two things. One thing is the website, the web browser. This web browser is actually from Playwright.
They use their own web browser to testing because they can access to this element.
And the second one is the Playwright inspector. This is the main character. It will generate the script from the interaction of this browser.
I wish I will show you the example. I will proceed a standard case here. I will enter standard user and the password.
I will order something. And then go to the cart. I will click checkout, enter some information.
And here, as you can see, everything I do, every action I do, the Playwright inspector, they are recording it.
And for this test, I will also use pytest. So I need to convert all of these things into pytest.
So instead of rewriting this code into a function for pytest, Playwright inspector, they also support us for that.
Right here, I use Python. So I want to do this. If you use another language, you can choose all the options.
But right now, I'm going to go with pytest. As you can see, it will automatically convert into a test function for me.
And I did the same to three cases. To run this function, I need to have the test text in front of the function name to playwright to the playtest.
I need to recognize the function to run the testing. And here, I will run testing with pytest.
So I will run this with slow motion 2000. This means every action, they will slow down two seconds.
And tracing on, which will leave me a test resource after the testing for the trace viewer.
I will run. This is the happy case.
It is the negative case, as you can see,
when pytest has done some testing function, it will automatically close the old one and open a new one for the new testing environment.
Here is the performance test.
Okay, that was the three test cases that I talked about before. And after I run the automation testing, it will generate for me the chasing for the case.
Right here, I have three test cases. And I will use this for the playwright trace viewer to see what the automation will do.
Okay, first, I will come with the happy case. When I use this, this comment, it will show me a black box for me to see the timeline of the testing, how long and the frame.
And it will show everything, every action, interaction of playwright to the website.
It will also show the delay time between these action. You can use it to check if the testing is something isn't right.
And it's the same thing to the negative case.
Right here, if the test case is wrong, it will stop and no more testing.
And the final is for the performance test.
Okay, at least, as you can see in the automation testing before, as you can see that at this step, the website is waiting like five seconds, which is actually on purpose because the website will have us delayed five seconds before we could enter the homepage,
which that function of the website will help us to test the outer way of playwright. As you can see right here, the playwright actually wait about five seconds and then didn't do anything else.
After five seconds, they see the chain of the website and they move and they just do the other like normal, like the happy case.
Okay, and that's all for the demo. I will come back to the conclusion. This part will be for now.
So, after all, so why we should use the playwright is that the manual testing.
So the first is the playwright provides the higher speed and better flexibility.
Automated test can be much faster and more consistently than manual testing, especially for repetitive and tuning scan areas.
The second playwright offers a powerful and outer way mechanism. It is the automatically wait until the elements are ready before the performing actions.
It's just as the licked button, this have eliminated the N4 manual delays like the time duct slip that you can see in the demo, which are often inefficient and error brought.
The overall playwright helps improve testing based efficiencies and software quality by reducing human error and answering reliable testing as executions.
And we hope these presentations have helped you understand the strength of the playwright in the modern software testing. Thank you.
